Error responses for DC API (#556)
openid/OpenID4VP: openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.md

In the event that another component is invoked instead of the Wallet, the End-User MUST be informed and give consent before the invoked component returns the `wallet_unavailable` Authorization Error Response to the Verifier.

## Digital Credential API Error Responses {#privacy-dc-api-error}

> Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying credentials in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API. For an improved user experience, platform implementations only allow wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. Protocol error responses can only be returned by a Wallet and so always reveal that the user is in possession of credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a wallet in those cases depends on how each individual wallet processes a request.

Author: ```suggestion
Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying credentials in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API. For an improved user experience, platform implementations only allow wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. Protocol error responses can only be returned by a Wallet and thus always reveal that the user is in possession of credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a wallet in those cases depends on how each individual wallet processes a request.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying Credentials or Wallet in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API. For an improved user experience, platform implementations only allow Wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. Protocol error responses can only be returned by a Wallet and thus always reveal that the user is in possession of Credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a Wallet in those cases depends on how each individual Wallet processes a request.
```

> Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying Credentials or Wallet in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API. For an improved user experience, platform implementations only allow Wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. Protocol error responses can only be returned by a Wallet and thus always reveal that the user is in possession of Credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a Wallet in those cases depends on how each individual Wallet processes a request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying Credentials or Wallet in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API since reaching the Wallet can be dependent on a Wallet's ability to satisfy the request. For example, platform implementations could only allow Wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. In this case, returning a protocol error responses can only be returned by a selected Wallet and would therefore reveal that the user is in possession of Credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a Wallet in those cases depends on how each individual Wallet processes a request.
```

> Returning any protocol error, regardless of content, may reveal additional information about the user’s underlying Credentials or Wallet in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API. For an improved user experience, platform implementations only allow Wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. Protocol error responses can only be returned by a Wallet and thus always reveal that the user is in possession of Credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a Wallet in those cases depends on how each individual Wallet processes a request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returning any OpenID4VP protocol error, regardless of content, can reveal additional information about the user’s underlying Credentials or Wallet in a way that is unique to the Digital Credentials API since reaching the Wallet can be dependent on a Wallet's ability to satisfy the request. For example, platform implementations could only allow Wallets to be selected that satisfy the request. In this case, returning an OpenID4VP protocol error responses can only be returned by a selected Wallet and would therefore reveal that the user is in possession of Credentials that satisfy the request. This is in contrast to other engagement methods, where the Wallet receives the request before learning if it can be fulfilled. What is revealed by a Wallet in those cases depends on how each individual Wallet processes a request.
```

The more narrow a request is, the more information is revealed. Some examples: 

 * A request that can be fulfilled by a broad range of documents. This will reveal only that the user has a credential from a large set of documents..

>  * A request that requests a single document type. This will reveal the user is in possession of that credential. How sensitive this is would depend on the particular credential.

Author: ```suggestion
 * A request for a single document type. This will reveal the user is in possession of that credential. How sensitive this is would depend on the particular credential.
```

>  * A request that can be fulfilled by a broad range of documents. This will reveal only that the user has a credential from a large set of documents.
>  * A request for a single document type. This will reveal the user is in possession of that credential. How sensitive this is would depend on the particular credential.
>  * A request with which can only be satisfied by a single trusted authority. This will reveal the user has a credential from a particular authority, from which other attributes may be inferred. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * A request that can be fulfilled by a broad range of documents. This will reveal only that the user has a Credential from a large set of documents.
 * A request for a single document type. This will reveal the user is in possession of that Credential. How sensitive this is would depend on the particular Credential.
 * A request with which can only be satisfied by a single trusted authority. This will reveal the user has a Credential from a particular authority, from which other attributes may be inferred. 
```

>  * A request with value matching. This will reveal the claim value of the field. 

Author: Should value matching have a reference link?

> Wallet implementations should balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information being revealed. It is RECOMMENDED that this is done for any errors before consent when processing a request containing value matching to avoid revealing values of claims without consent. 

Author: ```suggestion
Wallet implementations should balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. It is RECOMMENDED that this is done for any errors occurring before user consent when processing a request containing value matching to avoid revealing values of claims without consent. 
```

> Wallet implementations should balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. It is RECOMMENDED that this is done for any errors occurring before user consent when processing a request containing value matching to avoid revealing values of claims without consent. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wallet implementations need to balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. A Wallet SHOULD NOT return any errors before obtaining user consent when processing a request containing value matching, to avoid revealing values of claims without consent.
```

> Wallet implementations should balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. It is RECOMMENDED that this is done for any errors occurring before user consent when processing a request containing value matching to avoid revealing values of claims without consent. 

Reviewer 3: that MUST is not testable. i believe `need to` balance is sufficient.

> Wallet implementations should balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations may opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. It is RECOMMENDED that this is done for any errors occurring before user consent when processing a request containing value matching to avoid revealing values of claims without consent. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Wallet implementations need to balance the value of error detection to the maintenance and scaling of the verifier ecosystem with the information that is revealed. When handling errors, implementations MAY opt to cancel the flow (the details of which are platform specific) rather than return a protocol-specific error. This will make the result indistinguishable from other platform aborts, preventing any information from being revealed. 

A Wallet SHOULD NOT return any errors before obtaining user consent, when processing a request containing value matching, to avoid revealing values of claims without consent.
```

## Response {#dc_api_response}

> Every OpenID4VP Authorization Request results in a response being provided through the Digital Credentials API (DC API). The response is an instance of the `DigitalCredential` interface, as defined in [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API], and the OpenID4VP Authorization Response parameters as defined for the Response Type are represented as an object within the `data` property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Every OpenID4VP Request results in a response being provided through the Digital Credentials API (DC API). The response is an instance of the `DigitalCredential` interface, as defined in [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API], and the OpenID4VP Response parameters as defined for the Response Type are represented as an object within the `data` property.
```
we've been avoiding using "authorization request/response" terminology, since authorization request in oauth means a pretty specific grant type..

> Protocol error responses are returned as an object within the `data` property. This object has a single property with the name `error` and a value containing the error response code as defined in (#error-response). Note that a protocol error generated by the Wallet will still result in a fullfilled promise for the Digital Credentials API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Protocol error responses are returned as an object within the `data` property. This object has a single property with the name `error` and a value containing the error response code as defined in (#error-response). Note that a protocol error generated by the Wallet will still result in a fullfilled promise for the Digital Credentials API request.

The following is a non-normative example of a `data` object containing an error:

<{{examples/digital_credentials_api/error_invalid_request.json}}
```

## Response {#dc_api_response}

> Every OpenID4VP Request results in a response being provided through the Digital Credentials API (DC API). The response is an instance of the `DigitalCredential` interface, as defined in [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API], and the OpenID4VP Response parameters as defined for the Response Type are represented as an object within the `data` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every OpenID4VP Request results in a response being provided through the Digital Credentials API (DC API) or result in a cancelled flow. If a response is provided, the response is an instance of the `DigitalCredential` interface, as defined in [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API], and the OpenID4VP Response parameters as defined for the Response Type are represented as an object within the `data` property.
```

Reviewer 3: but RP learns about that cancellation via DC API, so the original text is correct, right?

Reviewer 4: I think what @martijnharing is saying is that in the event the flow is aborted prior to user selection/consent, there would be no OpenID4VP error response thus its a cancelled flow?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When OpenID4VP Request reaches the Wallet, it results in a Response being provided through the Digital Credentials API (DC API). The response is an instance of the `DigitalCredential` interface, as defined in [@!W3C.Digital_Credentials_API], and the OpenID4VP Response parameters as defined for the Response Type are represented as an object within the `data` property.
```
potentially something like this?

Reviewer 2: One of the options is for the wallet to cancel the flow (i.e. not return a protocol error). The text should reflect that option.
